# Asymptotically Safe Dark Matter with Gauged Baryon Number
We consider the inclusion of TeV-scale, fermionic dark matter in an asymptotically safe model of gauged baryon number that has been recently proposed [Phys. Rev. D 106, no. 3, 035015 (2022)]. The new gauge boson serves as a portal between the dark and the visible sectors. The range of the baryon number gauge coupling and the kinetic mixing between baryon number and hypercharge are constrained by the requirement that nontrivial ultraviolet fixed points are reached. We show that this asymptotically safe dark matter model can achieve the correct dark matter relic density while remaining consistent with direct detection bounds. A PDF of the arXiv publication is provided in the repository.
# File 1: SM_U1_DM_CS.nb
This is a Mathematica notebook which loads FeynCalc software to compute the total s-channel annihilation cross section for two dark matter particles in the model to annhilate into standard model particles. A quick estimate in the non-relativistic limit of the dark matter relic density is also performed.
# File 2: RGE analysis (gaussian).py
RGEs are generated from PyR@TE3 software in C++. This python file first solves the system of coupled differential equations below the Planck scale where gravitational corrections can be ignored and uses initial conditions specified in the Gaussian fixed-point case. The values of the couplings at the Planck scale are then used to set the initial conditions for the RGEs above the Planck scale with the gravitational corrections now taken into account. Plots of the running of the couplings above and below the Planck scale are produced for the couplings in each sector of the model. The RGEs are slightly different than in the gauged baryon number repository since this project includes the dark matter candidate.
# File 3: RGE analysis (non-trivial).py
RGEs are generated from PyR@TE3 software in C++. This python file first solves the system of coupled differential equations below the Planck scale where gravitational corrections can be ignored and uses initial conditions specified in the non-trivial fixed-point case. The values of the couplings at the Planck scale are then used to set the initial conditions for the RGEs above the Planck scale with the gravitational corrections now taken into account. Plots of the running of the couplings above and below the Planck scale are produced for the couplings in each sector of the model. The RGEs are slightly different than in the gauged baryon number repository since this project includes the dark matter candidate.
# File 4: Relic_Density.py
This Python file uses the s-channel annihilation cross section and decay width to final state fermions from FeynCalc. It then calculates the total cross section and allows one to fix parameters for each of the different fixed-point scenarios in the model. In the following, the dark matter mass and gauge boson mass are left as variables (assumed to be at the TeV scale). The relativistic degree of freedom formula is found and is also needed in each of the calculations. The code does a numerical evaluation of the thermally averaged annihilation cross section times relative velocity and calculates the freeze-out temperature. It then finds the entropy density at freeze-out and then propagates it to the present day temperature of the universe. The code then uses an equation for the dark matter relic density to find it. Finally, the code plots the relic density for three different values of the gauge boson mass (4 TeV, 6 TeV, and 8 TeV) while the dark matter mass is left as the dependent variable.
